



Aussie slang for banknotes



A
Ace! : excellent! Very good!
Aerial pingpong : Australian Rules football
Amber fluid : beer
Ambo : ambulance, ambulance driver
Ankle biter : small child
Apples, she’ll be : It’ll be all right
Arvo : afternoon
Aussie (pron. Ozzie) : Australian
Aussie salute : brushing away flies with the hand
Avos : avocados
B
B & S : Bachelors’ and Spinsters’ Ball - a very enjoyable party usually held in rural
areas
Back of Bourke : a very long way away
Bail (somebody) up : to corner somebody physically
Bail out : depart, usually angrily
Banana bender : a person from Queensland
Barbie : barbecue (noun)
Barrack : to cheer on (football team etc.)
Bastard : term of endearment
Bathers : swimming costume
Battler : someone working hard and only just making a living
Beaut, beauty : great, fantastic
Big-note oneself : brag, boast
Bikkie : biscuit (also “it cost big bikkies” - it was expensive)
Billabong : an ox-bow river or watering hole
Billy : teapot. Container for boiling water.
Bingle : motor vehicle accident
Bities : biting insects
Bitzer : mongrel dog (bits of this and bits of that)
Bizzo : business (“mind your own bizzo”)
Black Stump, beyond the : a long way away, the back of nowhere
Bloke : man, guy
Bloody : very (bloody hard yakka)
Bloody oath! : that’s certainly true
Blow in the bag : have a breathalyser test
Blowie : blow fly
Bludger : lazy person, layabout, somebody who always relies on other people to do
things or lend him things
55
1R4.17
R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
Blue : fight (“he was having a blue with his wife”)
Blue, make a : make a mistake
Bluey : pack, equipment, traffic ticket, redhead
Bluey : blue cattle dog (named after its subtle markings) which is an excellent working
dog. Everyone’s favourite all-Aussie dog.
Bluey : heavy wool or felt jacket worn by mining and construction workers.
Bluey : bluebottle jellyfish
Bodgy : of inferior quality
Bog in : commence eating, to attack food with enthusiasm
Bog standard : basic, unadorned, without accessories (a bog standard car, telephone
etc.)
Bogan : person who takes little pride in his appearance, spends his days slacking
and drinking beer
Bogged : Stuck in mud, deep sand (a vehicle).
Bondi cigar : see “brown-eyed mullet”
Bonzer : great, ripper
Boogie board : a hybrid, half-sized surf board
Boomer : a large male kangaroo
Booze bus : police vehicle used for catching drunk drivers
Boozer : a pub
Bored shitless : very bored
Bottle shop : liquor shop
Bottle-o : liquor shop (originally a man with hessian bags going around picking up
beer bottles in the 50’s and 60’s)
Bottler : something excellent
Bottling, his blood’s worth : he’s an excellent, helpful bloke.
Bounce : a bully
Bourke Street, he doesn’t know Christmas from : he’s a bit slow in the head.
(Bourke Street is a brightly lit Melbourne street)
Bowl of rice, not my : not my cup of tea; I don’t like it
Brass razoo, he hasn’t got a : he’s very poor
Brekkie : breakfast
Brick shit house, built like a : big strong bloke
Brickie : bricklayer
Brisvegas : Brisbane, state capital of Queensland
Brizzie : Brisbane, state capital of Queensland
Brown-eyed mullet : a turd in the sea (where you’re swimming!)
Brumby : a wild horse
Buck’s night : stag party, male gathering the night before the wedding
Buckley’s, Buckley’s chance : no chance (“New Zealand stands Buckley’s of beating
Australia at football”)
Budgie smugglers : men’s bathing costume
Bull bar : stout bar fixed to the front of a vehicle to protect it against hitting kangaroos
(also roo bar)
Bundy : short for Bundaberg, Queensland, and the brand of rum that’s made there
Bunyip : mythical outback creature
Bush : the hinterland, the Outback, anywhere that isn’t in town
Bush bash : long competitive running or motorcar race through the bush
56 56 56
2R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
R
Bush oyster : nasal mucus
Bush telly : campfire
Bushie : someone who lives in the Bush
Bushman’s hanky : emitting nasal mucus by placing one index finger on the outside
of the nose (thus blocking one nostril) and blowing.
Bushranger : highwayman, outlaw
Butcher : small glass of beer in South Australia - From the theory that a butcher could
take a quick break from his job, have a drink and be back at work
BYO : unlicensed restaurant where you have to Bring Your Own grog, also similar
party or barbecue
C
Cab Sav : Cabernet Sauvignon (a variety of wine grape)
Cactus : dead, not functioning (“this bloody washing machine is cactus”)
Cane toad : a person from Queensland
Captain Cook : look (noun) (“let’s have a Captain Cook”)
Cark it : to die, cease functioning
Cat burying shit, as busy as a : busy
Cat’s piss, as mean as : mean, stingy, uncharitable
Chewie : chewing gum
Chokkie : chocolate
Chook : a chicken
Chrissie : Christmas
Christmas : see Bourke Street
Chuck a sickie : take the day off sick from work when you’re perfectly healthy
Chunder : vomit
Clacker : anus (from Latin cloaca = sewer). Also the single orifice of monotremes
(platypus and echidna) used both for reproduction and for the elimination of body
wastes.
Clayton’s : fake, substitute
Cleanskin : Bottle of wine without a label. Usually bought in bulk by companies who
then add their own personalised label and use the wine as e.g. gifts to clients
Cleanskin : cattle that have not been branded, earmarked or castrated.
Click : kilometre - “it’s 10 clicks away”
Clucky : feeling broody or maternal
Coathanger : Sydney Harbour bridge
Cobber : friend
Cockie : farmer
Cockie : cockatoo
Cockie : cockroach
Cockroach : a person from New South Wales
Coldie : a beer
Come a gutser : make a bad mistake, have an accident
Compo : Workers’ Compensation pay
Conch (adj. conchy) : a conscientious person. Somebody who would rather work or
study than go out and enjoy him/herself.
Cooee, not within : figuratively a long way away, far off - england weren’t within
cooee of beating Australia at cricket
57
3R4.17
R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
Cooee, within : nearby - i was within cooee of landing a big fish when the line broke.
He lives within cooee of Sydney.
Cook (noun) : One’s wife
Corker : something excellent. A good stroke in cricket might be described as a ‘corker
of a shot’
Corroboree : an aboriginal dance festival
Counter lunch/Countery : pub lunch
Cozzie : swimming costume
Crack a fat : get an erection
Crack onto (someone) : to hit on someone, pursue someone romantically
Cranky : in a bad mood, angry
Cream (verb) : defeat by a large margin
Crook : sick, or badly made
Crow eater : a person from South Australia
Cubby house : Small, usually timber, house in the garden used as a children’s
plaything.
Cut lunch : sandwiches
Cut lunch commando : army reservist
Cut snake, mad as a : very angry
D
Dag : a funny person, nerd, goof
Daks : trousers
Damper : bread made from flour and water
Date : arse[hole] (“get off your fat date”)
Dead dingo’s donger, as dry as a : dry
Dead horse : Tomato sauce
Deadset : true, the truth
Dero : tramp, hobo, homeless person (from “derelict”)
Dickhead : see “whacker”
Digger : a soldier
Dill : an idiot
Dingo’s breakfast : a yawn, a leak and a good look round (i.e. no breakfast)
Dinkum, fair dinkum : true, real, genuine (“I’m a dinkum Aussie”; “is he fair
dinkum?”)
Dinky-di : the real thing, genuine
Dipstick : a loser, idiot
Divvy van : Police vehicle used for transporting criminals. Named after the protective
‘division’ between the driver and the villains.
Dob (somebody) in : inform on somebody. Hence dobber, a tell-tale
Docket : a bill, receipt
Doco : documentary
Dog : unattractive woman
Dog’s balls, stands out like : obvious
Dog’s eye : meat pie
Dole bludger : somebody on social assistance when unjustified
Donger : penis
Doodle : penis
58
4R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
R
Down Under : Australia and New Zealand
Drink with the flies : to drink alone
Drongo : a dope, stupid person
Dropkick : see ‘dipstick’
Drum : information, tip-off (“I’ll give you the drum”)
Duchess : sideboard
Duffer, cattle : rustler
Dummy, spit the : get very upset at something
Dunny : outside lavatory
Dunny budgie : blowfly
Dunny rat, cunning as a : very cunning
Durry : tobacco, cigarette
Dux : top of the class (n.); to be top of the class (v.) - “She duxed four of
her subjects”.
E
Earbashing : nagging, non-stop chatter
Ekka : the Brisbane Exhibition, an annual show
Esky : large insulated food/drink container for picnics, barbecues etc.
Exy : expensive
F
Face, off one’s : drunk (“He was off his face by 9pm”)
Fair dinkum : true, genuine
Fair go : a chance (“give a bloke a fair go”)
Fair suck of the sav! : exclamation of wonder, awe, disbelief (see also “sav”)
Fairy floss : candy floss, cotton candy
Feral : V8 ute (q.v.) sporting large heavy bullbar, numerous aerials, large truck
mudflaps and stickers almost all over the rear window and tailgate. Sometimes seen
with a Mack emblem on the bonnet and always with large (multiple) driving lights
Feral (n.) : a hippie
Figjam : “F*ck I’m good; just ask me”. Nickname for people who have a high opinion
of themselves.
Fisho : fishmonger
Flake : shark’s flesh (sold in fish & chips shops)
Flat out like a lizard drinking : flat out, busy
Flick : to give something or somebody the flick is to get rid of it or him/her
Flick it on : to sell something, usually for a quick profit, soon after buying it.
Fly wire : gauze flyscreen covering a window or doorway.
Footy : Australian Rules football
Fossick : search, rummage (“fossicking through the kitchen drawers”)
Fossick : to prospect, e.g. for gold
Fossicker : prospector, e.g. for gold
Franger : condom
Freckle : anus
Fremantle Doctor : the cooling afternoon breeze that arrives in Perth from the
direction of Freeo
Freo : Fremantle in Western Australia
59
5R4.17
R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
Frog in a sock, as cross as a : sounding angry - a person or your hard drive!
Fruit loop : fool
Full : drunk
Furphy : false or unreliable rumour
G
G’Day : hello!
Gabba : Wooloongabba - the Brisbane cricket ground
GAFA (pron. gaffa) : the big nothingness of the Australian Outback. Great Australian
F**k All.
Galah : fool, silly person. Named after the bird of the same name because of its
antics and the noise it makes.
Garbo, garbologist : municipal garbage collector
Give it a burl : try it, have a go
Gobful, give a : to abuse, usually justifiably (“The neighbours were having a noisy
party so I went and gave them a gobful”)
Gobsmacked : surprised, astounded
Going off : used of a night spot or party that is a lot of fun - “the place was really
going off”
Good oil : useful information, a good idea, the truth
Good onya : good for you, well done
Goog, as full as a : drunk. “Goog” is a variation of the northern English slangword
“goggie” meaning an egg.
Greenie : environmentalist
Grinning like a shot fox : very happy, smugly satisfied
Grog : liquor, beer (“bring your own grog, you bludger”)
Grouse (adj.) : great, terrific, very good
Grundies : undies, underwear (from Reg Grundy, a television person)
Gutful of piss : drunk, “he’s got a gutful of piss”
Gyno : gynaecologist
H
Handle : beer glass with a handle
Harold Holt, to do the : To bolt. (Also “to do the Harold”)
Heaps : a lot, e.g. “thanks heaps”, “(s)he earned heaps of money” etc.
Holy dooley! : an exclamation of surprise = “Good heavens!”, “My goodness!”
“Good grief!” or similar
Hoon : hooligan
Hooroo : goodbye
Hotel : often just a pub
Hottie : hot water bottle
I
Icy pole, ice block : popsicle, lollypop
J
Jackaroo : a male trainee station manager or station hand (a station is a big farm/
grazing property)
60
6R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
R
Jillaroo : a female trainee station manager or station hand
Joey : baby kangaroo
Journo : journalist
Jug : electric kettle
Jumbuck : sheep
K
Kangaroos loose in the top paddock : Intellectually inadequate (“he’s got kangaroos
loose in the top paddock”)
Kelpie : Australian sheepdog originally bred from Scottish collie
Kero : kerosene
Kindie : kindergarten
Knock : to criticise
Knock back : refusal (noun), refuse (transitive verb)
Knocker : somebody who criticises
L
Lair : a flashily dressed young man of brash and vulgar behaviour, to dress up in
flashy clothes, to renovate or dress up something in bad taste
Lair it up : to behave in a brash and vulgar manner
Larrikin : a bloke who is always enjoying himself, harmless prankster
Lend of, to have a : to take advantage of somebody’s gullibility, to have someone
on (“he’s having a lend of you”)
Lippy : lipstick
Liquid laugh : vomit
Lizard drinking, flat out like a : flat out, busy
Lob, lob in : drop in to see someone (“the rellies have lobbed”)
Lollies : sweets, candy
London to a brick : absolute certainty (“it’s London to a brick that taxes won’t go
down”)
Long paddock : the side of the road where livestock is grazed during droughts
Longneck : 750ml bottle of beer in South Australia
Lucky Country, The : Australia, where else?
Lunch, who opened their? : OK, who farted?
Lurk : illegal or underhanded racket
M
Maccas (pron. “mackers”) : McDonald’s (the hamburger place)
Mallee bull, as fit as a : very fit and strong. The Mallee is very arid beef country in
Victoria/South Australia.
Manchester : Household linen, eg sheets etc.
Mappa Tassie : map of Tasmania - a woman’s pubic area
Mate : buddy, friend
Mate’s rate, mate’s discount : cheaper than usual for a “friend”
Matilda : swagman’s bedding, sleeping roll
Metho : methylated spirits
Mexican : a person from south of the Queensland or New South Wales border
61
7R4.17
R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
Mickey Mouse : excellent, very good. Beware though - in some parts of Australia it
means inconsequential, frivolous or not very good!
Middy : 285 ml beer glass in New South Wales
Milk bar : corner shop that sells takeaway food
Milko : milkman
Mob : group of people, not necessarily troublesome
Mob : family or herd (?) of kangaroos
Mongrel : despicable person
Moolah : money
Mozzie : mosquito
Muddy : mud crab (a great delicacy)
Mug : friendly insult (“have a go, yer mug”), gullible person
Mull : grass (the kind you smoke)
Muster : round up sheep or cattle
Mystery bag : a sausage
N
Nasho : National Service (compulsory military service)
Naughty, have a : have sex
Never Never : the Outback, centre of Australia
Nipper : young surf lifesaver
No drama : same as ‘no worries’
No worries! : Expression of forgiveness or reassurance (No problem; forget about
it; I can do it; Yes, I’ll do it)
No-hoper : somebody who’ll never do well
Not the full quid : not bright intellectually
Nuddy, in the : naked
Nun’s nasty, as dry as a : dry
Nut out : hammer out or work out (an agreement, say)
O
O.S. : overseas (“he’s gone O.S.”)
Ocker : an unsophisticated person
Offsider : an assistant, helper
Old fella : penis
Oldies : parents - “I’ll have to ask my oldies”
Op shop : opportunity shop, thrift store, place where second hand goods are sold.
Outback : interior of Australia
Oz : Australia!
P
Paddock : see ‘long paddock’
Pash : a long passionate kiss; hence “pashing on”
Pav : Pavlova - a rich, creamy Australian dessert
Perve (noun & verb) : looking lustfully at the opposite sex
Piece of piss : easy task
Pig’s arse! : I don’t agree with you
Piker : Someone who doesn’t want to fit in with others socially, leaves parties early
62
8R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
R
Pink slip, get the : get the sack (from the colour of the termination form)
Pint : large glass of beer (esp. in South Australia)
Piss : beer. Hence “hit the piss”, “sink some piss”
Plate, bring a : Instruction on party or BBQ invitation to bring your own food.
It doesn’t mean they’re short of crockery!
Plonk : cheap wine
Pokies : poker machines, fruit machines, gambling slot machines
Polly : politician
Pom, pommy : an Englishman
Pommy bastard : an Englishman
Pommy shower : using deodorant instead of taking a shower
Pommy’s towel, as dry as a : very dry - based on the canard that Poms bathe about
once a month
Porky : Lie, untruth (pork pie = lie)
Port : suitcase (portmanteau)
Postie : postman, mailman
Pot : 285 ml beer glass in Queensland and Victoria
Pozzy : position - get a good pozzy at the football stadium
Prezzy : present, gift
Q
Quid, make a : earn a living - “are you making a quid?”
Quid, not the full : of low iQ. [Historical note: ‘quid’ is slang for a pound. £1 became
$2 when Australia converted to decimal currency]
R
Rack off : push off! get lost! get out of here! also “rack off hairy legs!”.
Rage : party
Rage on : to continue partying - “we raged on until 3am”
Rapt : pleased, delighted
Ratbag : mild insult
Raw prawn, to come the : to bullshit, to be generally disagreeable
Reckon! : you bet! Absolutely!
Reffo : refugee
Rego : vehicle registration
Rellie or relo : family relative
Ridgy-didge : original, genuine
Right, she : it’ll be all right
Right, that’d be : Accepting bad news as inevitable. (“i went fishing but caught
nothing.” “Yeah, that’d be right.”)
Rip snorter : great, fantastic - “it was a rip snorter of a party”
Ripper : great, fantastic - “it was a ripper party”
Ripper, you little! : Exclamation of delight or as a reaction to good news
Road train : big truck with many trailers
Rock up : to turn up, to arrive - “we rocked up at their house at 8pm”
Rollie : a cigarette that you roll yourself
Roo : kangaroo
63
9R4.17
R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
Roo bar : stout bar fixed to the front of a vehicle to protect it against hitting kangaroos
(also bull bar)
Root (verb and noun) : synonym for f*ck in nearly all its senses: “I feel rooted”; “this
washing machine is rooted”; “(s)he’s a good root”. A very useful word in fairly polite
company.
Root rat : somebody who is constantly looking for sex.
Ropeable : very angry
Rort (verb or noun) : Cheating, fiddling, defrauding (expenses, the system etc.).
Usually used of politicians
Rotten : drunk - “I went out last night and got rotten”
Rubbish (verb) : to criticize
S
Salute, Aussie : brushing flies away
Salvos, the : Salvation Army, bless them
Sandgroper : a person from Western Australia
Sanger : a sandwich
Sav : saveloy (see also “fair suck of the sav!”)
Schooner : large beer glass in Queensland; medium beer glass in South Australia
Scratchy : instant lottery ticket
Screamer : party lover; “two pot screamer” - somebody who gets drunk on very little
alcohol
Seppo : an American
Servo : petrol station
Shag on a rock, stands out like a : very obvious
Shark biscuit : somebody new to surfing
She’ll be right : it’ll turn out okay
Sheila : a woman
Shit house (adj.) : of poor quality, unenjoyable (“this car is shit house”, “the movie
was shit house”)
Shit house (noun) : toilet, lavatory
Shonky : dubious, underhanded. E.g. a shonky practice, shonky business etc.
Shoot through : to leave
Shout : turn to buy - a round of drinks usually (“it’s your shout”)
Show pony : someone who tries hard, by his dress or behaviour, to impress those
around him.
Sickie : day off sick from work (chuck a sickie = take the day off sick from work
when you’re perfectly healthy!)
Skite : boast, brag
Skull/Skol (a beer) : to drink a beer in a single draught without taking a breath
Slab : a carton of 24 bottles or cans of beer
Sleepout : house verandah converted to a bedroom
Smoko : smoke or coffee break
Snag : a sausage
Sook : person or animal who is soft, tame, inoffensive. Hence sooky (adj.)
Spag bol : spaghetti bolognese
Spewin’ : very angry
Spiffy, pretty spiffy : great, excellent
64
10R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
R
Spit the dummy : get very upset at something
Spruiker : man who stands outside a nightclub or restaurant trying to persuade
people to enter
Sprung : caught doing something wrong
Spunk : a good looking person (of either sex)
Squizz (noun) : look - “take a squizz at this”
Standover man : a large man, usually gang-related, who threatens people with
physical violence in order to have his wishes carried out.
Station : a big farm/grazing property
Stickybeak : nosy person
Stoked : very pleased
Stonkered : drunk
Strewth : exclamation, mild oath (“Strewth, that Chris is a bonzer bloke”)
Strides : trousers
Strine : Australian slang and pronunciation
Stubby : a 375ml. beer bottle
Stubby holder : polystyrene insulated holder for a stubby
Stuffed, I feel : I’m tired
Stuffed, I’ll be : expression of surprise
Sunbake : sunbathe
Sunnies : sunglasses
Surfies : people who go surfing - usually more often than they go to work!
Swag : rolled up bedding etc. carried by a swagman
Swaggie : swagman
Swagman : tramp, hobo
T
Tall poppies : successful people
Tall poppy syndrome : the tendency to criticize successful people
Tallie : 750ml bottle of beer
Taswegian : derogatory term for a person from Tasmania
Technicolor yawn : vomit
Tee-up : to set up (an appointment)
Thingo : Wadjamacallit, thingummy, whatsit
Thongs : cheap rubber backless sandals
Throw-down : small bottle of beer which you can throw down quickly.
Tickets, to have on oneself : to have a high opinion of oneself
Tinny : can of beer
Tinny : small aluminium boat
Tinny, tin-arsed : lucky
Togs : swim suit
Too right! : definitely!
Top End : far north of Australia
Trackie daks/dacks : tracksuit pants
Trackies : track suit
Troppo, gone : to have escaped to a state of tropical madness; to have lost the
veneer of civilisation after spending too long in the tropics.
Trough lolly : the solid piece of perfumed disinfectant in a men’s urinal
65
11R4.17
R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
Truckie : truck driver
True blue : patriotic
Tucker : food
Tucker-bag : food bag
Turps : turpentine, alcoholic drink
Turps, hit the : go on a drinking binge
Two up : gambling game played by spinning two coins simultaneously
U
Uni : university
Unit : flat, apartment
Up oneself : have a high opinion of oneself - “he’s really up himself”
Up somebody, get : to rebuke somebody - “the boss got up me for being late”
Useful as an ashtray on a motorbike / tits on a bull : unhelpful or incompetent
person or thing - “he, she or it is about as useful as tits on a bull” etc. etc.
Ute : utility vehicle, pickup truck
V
Vedgies : vegetables
Vee dub : Volkswagen
Veg out : relax in front of the TV (like a vegetable)
Vejjo : vegetarian
Vinnie’s : St. Vincent De Paul’s (charity thrift stores and hostels)
W
WACA (pron. whacker) : Western Australian Cricket Association and the Perth cricket
ground
Waggin’ school : playing truant
Walkabout : a walk in the Outback by Aborigines that lasts for an indefinite amount
of time
Walkabout, it’s gone : it’s lost, can’t be found
Weekend warrior : army reservist
Whacker, whacka : Idiot; somebody who talks drivel; somebody with whom you
have little patience; a dickhead
Whinge : complain
White pointers : topless (female) sunbathers
Whiteant (verb) : to criticise something to deter somebody from buying it. A car
dealer might whiteant another dealer’s cars or a real estate salesman might whiteant
another agent’s property
Wobbly : excitable behaviour (“I complained about the food and the waiter threw
a wobbly”)
Wobbly boot on, he’s got the : drunk
Wog : flu or trivial illness
Wog : person of Mediterranean origin. A milder insult than the same word in the UK
and perhaps elsewhere.
Wombat : somebody who eats, roots and leaves (see also root)
Woop Woop : invented name for any small unimportant town - “he lives in Woop
Woop”
66
12R4.17
AUSTRALIAN SLANG
DICTIONARY
R
Wowser : straight-laced person, prude, puritan, spoilsport
Wuss : coward; nervous person or animal
X
XXXX : pronounced Four X, brand of beer made in Queensland
Y
Yabber : talk (a lot)
Yabby : inland freshwater crayfish found in Australia (Cherax destructor)
Yakka : work (noun)
Yewy : u-turn in traffic (“chuck a yewy at the next traffic lights”)
Yobbo : an uncouth person
Z
Zack : sixpence (5 cents) - “it isn’t worth a zack”, “he hasn’t got a zack”    A
Aerial ping pong: Australian Rules Football, description usually used derogatorily by Rugby Fans
Eg: “”I’m going over Johnno’s to watch the aerial ping pong and knock back a few coldies.”
Agro: 1. The state of being angry and aggressive. 2. Name of a well known puppet on a children's
program.
Eg: “That bloke’s going off like a frog in a sock, he’s fairly agro.”
Alice: Alice Springs, a town in Northern Territory.
Eg: “We’re heading down to the servo at Alice to fill up the ute.”
Amber fluid: Beer.
Eg: "Nothin' like some sweet amber fluid in the arvo after some hard yakka.”
Akubra: An Australian felt hat with a wide brim.
Eg: “It’s as hot as out there today, you might want to grab your sunnies and akubra.”
Any tic of the clock: Very soon.
Eg: "That barra's back. Any tick of the clock now she's gonna bite.”
Ankle biter: Small child, also called a rug rat.
Eg: "Barbie at my joint this arvo, ankle biters welcome. Bring a plate.”
A over T: to fall over, from "arse over tits", adapted from "head over heels".
Eg: “”
Apple Eater: A Tasmanian. Also "Apple Islander".
Eg: “”An Apple eater, a Crow eater, and a New South Welshman walked into a bar and ordered a
pot.”
Apples, she'll be apples: Everything will be alright.
Eg: "Its okay mate, she's apples, I'll get em for ya"
Arse up: to fall over, have an accident. Variations: Arse over tits, tits up.
Eg: "My sarong got caught in my tongs while I was in the milk bar and I almost went arse up into
the Violet Crumble display."
Arvo: afternoon.
Eg: "No worries, I'll see ya tomorrow arvo anyway."
Avago: To attempt to do something.
Eg: “Carn mate, don't just sit there like a stunned mullet, avago ya mug!”
Avo: Avocado.
Eg: "You want avo and cheese on your sanga or vegemite?”
Aussie: An Australian person.
Eg: “Call yourself a true blue, dinki di, dead set Aussie? You’d better learn the local lingo first!”
Aussie salute: to brush away flies with hand.
Eg: "No blowies on me, give em the Aussie salute.”
B
Back of Bourke: a long way away from wherever you are, specifically inland and away from
civilisation.
Eg:
Banana Bender: a Queenslander.
Eg: "Ask those banana benders if they want minimum chips.”
Banger, snagger or snag: a sausage.
Eg:
Barbie: Barbecue. Similar to an American cook out. Contrary to popular belief, shrimps are not
usually involved.1
Barney: an argument or fight.
Eg: "I wouldn't barny with that bloke if I were you, he's built like a brick shit house!"
Bathers: swimming costume (SA).
Eg: "I've brought my bathers in case we go to Glenelg"
Battler: a hard work and persistent trier who is struggling financially.
Eg: "You're a true blue Aussie Battler!”
Beanie: a woollen hat.
Bee's knees: the best, perfect, the greatest.
Eg: "Stevo, your shiela's the bee's knees for whipping us up that tucker."
Beg yours?: Short for Beg your pardon?
Eg: ”He's crook as a chook better call a quack" "beg yours?" "He's sick, call a doctor"
Bewdie: short for beauty = great.
Eg: "She’s a bewdie mate", or "You little Bewdie!"
Bickie: A biscuit (American equivalent: “Cookie”), also money.
Eg: That’s a flash Land Cruiser mate, it must have cost you big bickies eh?
Big mobs: lots of.
Eg: "I want big mobs of dead horse on that dog’s eye mate, ta."
Billy: A tin used for boiling water over a campfire, usually for a cup of tea. Originally made from
empty jam tin with a wire loop.
Eg:
Billy tea: tea brewed over an open fire in a billy. Billy Tea usually has a Gum Leaf thrown in for
flavour.
Eg:
Billabong: A waterhole, formed when a "U" shaped bend in a river is cut off and separates from
the rest of the river.
Eg:
1
http://youtu.be/95OovSKEtfs
Bite ya bum: exclamation, be quiet, shut up.
Eg: "Oh bite ya bum. I've had gutfull of your moaning"
Bingle = accident.
Eg: "Watch it mate, you wouldn't want to have a bingle with that bloke on the pushbike."
Bloke: man.
Eg: "Eh bloke, want another beer?" or "Cop a load of that bloke's durrey"
Blowie: a blowfly, a large and very noisy fly.
Eg: "Chuck us the aeroguard, there's a big blowie on Bluey's back."
Blowy: windy.
Eg: "Gee, it's blowy today eh.”
Blowy: short for blow-fly.
Eg: "There's heaps of blowies hanging 'round your esky mate."
Bloody: a very versatile Australian adjective.
Eg: "Have you ever flown over the Lost CIty? The view from the air is bloody amazing!"
Blow-in: youngster
Eg: “Who’s this young blow-in think he is? He’s still wet behind the ears!
Bluey: a name given to someone with red hair. It is an classic example of irony in Aussie slang.
Eg:
Blue: a fight. To 'get into a blue' means to get into a fight, or argument.
Eg: “Are they having a blue?'.
Bluey: Navy Blue Singlet
Eg:
Boardies: board shorts.
Eg: "Mate, it's freezing and your trunkin' it and going in just boardies?!"
Bodum: coffee plunger. Name after the coffee company.
Eg:
Prue: How about something in your Bodum?
Kim: I beg yours!
cyuuute.2
Prue: A plunger in your Bodum's always nice. And it comes with these matching cups which are
Bottlo: Bottle shop.
Eg: "Davo nearly stacked his treddly on the way to the bottlo to pick up a slab of tinnies."
Bonnet: The hood of a car.
Eg: “Sounds like the carbie's chucking a wobbly, better get out and have a gander under the
bonnet.”
Bog in: instruction to eat.
Eg: "Grub's up! 2, 4, 6, 8, Bog in, don't wait."
Bonzer, Bonza: Great, excellent.
Eg: "Had a bonza News Years last night, squeezed a few too many tinnies though and woke up
feeling pretty crook."
Bloody Oath: most certainly. Usually used in response to a question. Thought to date back to
colonial times, from the expression "My colonial oath!" and later "My Australian oath!". Another
variation is "Flamin' Oath". eg:
Wife: "Are you OK with steak and chips tonight darls?"
Husband: “Bloody Oath I am love!"3
Boomer: a large male kangaroo
Eg:
Boonies: boondocks, bush, remote area.
Eg:"Wanna a lift home mate?"
"Thanks, I live out in the boonies and would take ages to get home if I had to hoof it."
Bodgy: poor quality.
Eg: "Mate, that Bush Mechanics show is a corker! Djya see the bodgy fanbelt fix?"
Brekky: breakfast.
Eg: "What's for brekky Mum? How about a tip top Vegemite on toast?"4
Breville: a toasted sandwich. Breville is the name of a company that makes sandwich toasters. In
some states , such as Queensland, they are called a "Jaffle". In other places like South Australia,
a toasted sandwich is called a "Toastie toast”.5
Buckly’s: No chance. eg: "You've got Buckly's if you think you're gonna catch a barra with that
rod."
Budgie smugglers: mens swimming costume.6
Bum: bottom, arse. Also lazy person. Also to bludge something off someone.
eg: "That lazy bum just sat on his bum, bumming smokes off of anyone who walked past.” 7
Bunny Rug: baby blanket.
Eg:
Eg: "Get the Bunny rug out of the boot for the little ankle biter.”8
Bunyip: A mythical bush spirit animal that lives in swamps and billabongs.
EG:
Buggered: broken, also tired, also an expression of surprise, also used as an expletive. The word
has many uses with several different meanings.
Eg:
"I reckon it's well and truly buggered this time." = broken.
"I'm buggered from that long bush walk." = tired.
"Well I'll be buggered if they think I'm going in there." = an expression of surprise.
"Bugger, we're all out of ice for the esky." = expletive.9
Bush: the Outback
Eg:
Bushwalking: hiking in the bush.
Eg:
Bush Wacked, Bushed: exhausted.
Eg: "I've been walking around the Lost City all day, I am bushed!"
Bush Wacker, Bushie: a country person who resides in the bush.
Eg: "Why are you stirring your tea with a twig? What are ya, ya bloody bushie!"
Bush Telegraph:
Eg:
Bush-bash: driving off road, driving through the un touched bush.
Eg: "We're going bush-bashing this arvo, see if we can find that billabong Andy was last seen at.”
Bushytailed and Bright Eyed:
Eg:
Busy as Bourke street in the rush hour: Extremly busy. Bourke St. is a main street in Melbourne
and is always busy.
Eg:
Buggerise: see "piss-fart around”.
Eg:
By jingoes = an exclamation of surprise. Also, "by jingo" is an old northern slang for an ice cream
on a stick.
Eg:
Bubble & Squeak:
Eg:
9

C
Cackleberry: Also called a “goog”, it’s Australian for an egg. Not to be confused with Dingleberry.
Eg: "You want a cackleberry for breakfast?"
Cack ya dacks: literally: poo your pants, used as an expression of being scared.
Eg: "When the stick I stood on started wriggling I nearly cacked my dacks. Turned out it was just a
harmless legless lizard."
Cactus: something has had it, broken, doesn't work anymore.
Eg: "Yep, your treddly is well and truly cactus mate."
Cark it: to die.
Eg: "Bluey's old ute? I think she carked it yonks ago."
Carn: Short for "Come on!" Often heard at football games to cheer a team on.
Eg: "Carn the Crows!"
Cheesed off: very annoyed, pissed off.
Eg: "I think you've really cheesed him off by repeatedly poking him with that stick."
Chewie: chewing gum.
Eg: "Give us a chewy would ya?” Yeh, they're up on the bonnet of the ute next to my sunnies."
Chips:
Eg:
Choof off: Leave, go somewhere
Eg:
Chook: a chicken. Also used in a derogatory way,
Eg: "Made ya look, ya dirty chook, hanging on a butcher's hook"
Chockas: full, short for "chock-a-block".
Eg: "Can't fit any more in mate, she's chockas"
Clapped out: broken down, will no longer work.
Eg: "Crikey, it looks like she's clapped out mate".
Clobber: clothes. eg: "Get ya clobber on, we're leaving in a tick."_
Also to hit someone forcefully.
Eg: "I'd clobber the bastard if I were you. He just took the last snag."
Cods wallop: an exclamation showing disbelief in what has just been said, a polite way of saying
“bullshit”.
Eg:
Cobber: a friend. Similar to a mate or a friend.
Eg: ”Those two blokes are true blue Aussie cobbers."
Cobber: a chocolate coated toffee.
Eg: “Grab us some of those choice lollies, and $2 worth of cobbers."
Cockie: short for a type of parrot known as a cockatoo.
6Cockie: short for cockroach. In Queensland they are huge and they fly.10
Eg:
Cooking with gas: Used to indicate that the current activity is proceeding either as expected or
better.
Eg:
Cooee!: a shout used in the Australian Outback mainly to attract attention, find missing people, or
indicate one's own location.
Eg:
Cossie: swimming costume. (NSW)
Eg: "You wanna have a dip in the river Ena?' 'I haven't got me cossie Oscar."
Countery (short for counter meal): a pub lunch.
Eg: "I reckon a countery is the goer after a gut full of that grog."
Cuppa: a cup of tea or coffee.
Eg:

D
Daks: Trousers. Also, “underdaks" underpants.
Eg: "Don't get caught with your dacks down”
Daks: A man's trousers or shorts, 'under daks' are underpants.
Eg: "Laugh? I almost cacked my daks!"
Dag: bits of manure that stick to the long wool around a sheep's bum forming small dangling balls.
Damper, to put a: to slow down progress, or put a negative spin on something.
Eg: "The sad news has put a damper on the afternoon's party."
Darwin stubby: a very large bottle of beer. Derived from NT Draught bottles, which came in sizes
up to 2 litres.
Dead set: True, dinky di, true blue, true dinks. Sometimes used as a question: "dead set?"
Deli - regional name for a small shop open at times when other shops are closed and selling food,
cigarettes and convenience items. From 'delicatessen' A deli does not necessarily sell fine foods,
as would a delicatessen in other countries. Also known as a milk bar, corner shop.11
Deli = Delicatessen, a small local shop that sells milk, bread, soft drink, etc. In some states such
as Victoria they're called a "Milk bar".
Eg: "If you're going to the Deli could you get us a fruit box?"
Didgeridoo = An Aboriginal musical instrument made from a hollowed out log.
Eg:
Digger = soldier. Specifically, a soldier from the Australia Army who served Turkey during the
First World War. The term came about from "digging -They are remembered on ANZAC day.
Eg:
Dingleberry: a small clot of dung, as clinging to the hindquarters of an animal.
Eg:
Dinky di: the genuine article or the real thing.
Eg: "Dead set, this is a dinky di, true blue Aussie cork hat"
Dogs breakfast: a mess.
Eg: "You've made a real dog's breakfast of it!"
Dunny: A toilet. (See also ‘Thunderbox’)
Eg: "Carn' mate where's ya dunny? Those choo-choo bars gave me the runs".
Dingos Breakfast: used to describe what you do when waking up, usually when camping - a
stretch and leak. Not related to eating.
Eg:
Dog's eye: meat pie
Dink: to give another person a ride on your bike while retaining the 'driver's seat'. Usually this
means the second person sits on the cross bar between the handlebars and the seat, or on the
handle bars themselves, or on the rack on the back of the bike (as pictured below).
The term _'dink'_ is generally used in the south eastern states. In Queensland it is more common
to give someone a 'double', while in South Australia an old term that is not used as much these
days is 'donkey'.
Dinking, or "Donkeying", was defined in South Australian law as 'carrying a passenger on a bicycle
conveyance intended for one person' and was an offence in South Australia under the road rules.
"State preferences also vary in terms of giving a second person a lift on a bicycle built for one. The
oldest version seems to be “double-banking” (used generally throughout Australia), but “donkeying”
is currently preferred in South Australia, “double-donkeying” in Victoria, and “double-banking” in
Western Australia and “doubling” in N.S.W. (1966: 283)”12
Eg: "Until you get some thornproof inner tubes on your treddly, I'll give you a dink to the milk bar."13
Dodgy: Suspicious or underhanded, also broken.
Eg: "That spare wheel looks a bit dodgy to me."
Dob, dob in, dobbed on, dobber: to tell on, one who tells on people.
Eg: "You stole some Lolly Gobble Bliss Bombs from my port. I'm dobbing on you."
Doona = a bed quilt. Called a duvet in England.
Eg: "Brrr…it's cold enough to freeze the balls of a brass monkey, chuck us that doona that's on the
bonnet of the ute would, ta."
Dead ringer = an exact copy, likeness, or replica. Something/someone that looks exactly the
same as something/someone else. Perhaps from the earlier expression: 'ring in the gray', or
'ring in the knob', meaning to substitute a double-sided penny for a genuine one.14
Durry: a cigarette.
Eg: "Mate, I feel crook from all those durries I smoked last night."
Duck's guts: the heart of the matter.
Eg: “Well the duck's guts is that he took the ute with my tredly in the back.”
Dial: face. Eg: "Off ya dial" = Off your face, ie: drunk.
Eg: "That'll put a smile on ya dial” means “That will make you happy.”
Drongo: an idiot.
Eg: “That bloke's trying to squeeze a VB into a Heineken stubby holder, what a drongo!”
Drongo: a stupid person, a fool.
Eg: "Don't lay your swag so close to the fire ya drongo!”
Dropkick: idiot.
Eg: "Don't believe his yarn spinning, that bloke is a bloody dropkick.”
E
Earbash: to chatter or talk incessantly to the point of boring or nagging.
Ears flapping: eaves dropping.
Eg: "Shhh, don't say anything, that bloke's ears are flapping"
Esky: a portable insulated container for keeping food or drink cool. A shortening the trade name for
Eskimo box.
Elbow grease: More effort.
Eg: "You'll need to put a bit of elbow grease into it to get that lid off."15
Egg on: to encourage someone to do something they are wary of doing.
Eg: "Don't egg him on, can't you see he's full on packing it."
Egg beater: a small spinning reel.
Eg: ”He reckons he's gonna land a slimy with that egg beater but he's got buckley's with that poddy
on his hook."16
Empties: empty beer bottles.
Eg: "Put your empties in the back ute, we'll do a run to the recyclers and get our $2.40 for each
carton.”
Emu's eye: Egg in the middle of a piece of bread fried on a BBQ plate.
Eg: ”I've got a couple of emu's eye's on the barbie, who wants one?"

F
Fair Dinkum: Real, honest or genuine.
Eg: "This one is a fair dinkum round 50 cent piece with Captain Cook on it."
Fag: a cigarette, not a homosexual man. Also known as a "durry".
Eg: “Take a squid at this Garbo, the bloke has half a fag hangin' out of his cake hole."
Fixy: fixed wheel. A bike that has the back cog welded to the back wheel. Good for tricks, not
good for trying to stop when going fast.
Eg: "It's heaps easier to pop a mono on this trebly cos it's a fix”.18
Flake: Fillets of shark meat, used in fish & chips.
Eg: "I'll have a crumbed flake, potato cake and a scoop of chips please."
Flake out: Lay down exhausted.
Eg: "I'm bushed from all that walking this arvo, I'm gonna flake out when I get home".
Flanny:
Eg: “”
Flick, to give someone the flick = to get rid of.
Eg: "That sheila is no good for you mate, give her the flick.”
Flicks: Cinema.
Eg: "Are you to the Flicks on Saturday night to see BMX Bandits?" 19
Eg: ”I haven't seen a good film in yonks, let's go to the Flicks tonight” 20
Fair crack of the whip: to give some one an equal opportunity. Modern variation: "Fair suck of the
sauce bottle"21
Fair go: Often used as an exclamation of being treated unfairly.
Eg: "Fair go mate! No need to get all bent out of shape and give me an ear bashing over it."
Flat out like a lizard drinking: very busy and under pressure from work.
Eg: “”
Flog: 1. to beat or physically abuse someone/something;
2. to sell something; 3. to steal something.
Eg: “”
Footy: Football. Can apply to Australian Rules, Rugby League, or Rugby Union.
Eg: “”
Footpath: a path along the side of the road where people walk. Called a ‘sidewalk’ in America.
Eg: “”
Fairy floss: Candy floss, cotton candy.

Eg: “”
Flowerpot: A Red Rock Cod.
Eg: "Mate, have a gander it this blokes wand, I reckon he's hooked a flower pot."22
Floaties: inflatable floating device usually worn on each arm to help stay afloat in the water while
learning to swimming.23
Eg: “”
Flaming = Similar to "bloody" but more socially acceptable.
Eg: "Get that flaming mongrel off my swag, he's got mud all over the doonor.24
Fussed: worried, can be used in the positive or negative, i.e.: "fussed" or "not fussed".
Eg: "Grab your cozzie, lets go for a dip before the tide goes out eh?" "Nah, I'm not fussed."
Furphy: rumour. A furphy, also commonly spelled furfie, is Australian slang for a rumour, or an
erroneous or improbable story. The word is derived from water carts made by a company
established by John Furphy: J. Furphy & Sons of Shepparton, Victoria. Many Furphy water carts
were used to take water to Australian Army personnel during World War I. The carts, with "J.
Furphy & Sons" written on their tanks, became popular as gathering places where soldiers could
exchange gossip, rumours and fanciful tales—much like today's water cooler discussion.25
Eg: “”

G
G’day: Hello. Short for "Good Day". It is the universal Australian friendly greeting.
Eg: "G'day mate, how are you going?" Response: "Yeh not too bad eh."
Garbo: the garbage collector.
Eg: "Quick, grab the recycling and take put the wheelie bin out, I can hear the garbo coming.”
Galah: a fool or silly person. The galah is a particularly noisy pink and grey parrot.
Galoot: a foolish person.
Eg: "There's no way you'll be walking to Cape Crawford from Borroloola! It's 110 km ya galoot!"
Gander: to have a look.
Eg: "Have a gander and those brolgas on the beach".
Gear: clothes.
Eg: "Carn, get your gear off and let's take a dip in the Billabong.
Getup: Clothes.
Eg: "Cop a load of that bloke's getup, he's gonna win the mardi gras, dead set."

Get stood on: get lost.
Eg:"You were sposed to chuck a lefty at the last intersection you flaming' drone!" on.”
"Ahh get stood
Get nicked: Get stuffed, or to get caught in the act.
Eg: "Yeh Stevo got nicked by the boys in blue for chuckin' a Uey at the bottlo the bloody nong!"
Ginormous: Huge. Combination of ‘gigantic' and ‘enormous’.
Eg: "Cop a load of those ginormous columns of rock!"
Goonie: box wine, cardboard wine cask. eg: "Go through the bottlo and pick up a goonie, some
durries, and a carton of XXXX tallies for us eh."
Eg: “”
goog, googie: an egg.
Eg: “”
Grouse: Excellent.
Eg:”Cop a load of these grouse lamingtons!"
H
Happy as a pig in mud: very happy. More often than not, the word "mud" is exchanged with a
four letter word that begins with 's' and ends with a 't'.
Eg:"He's as happy as a pig in shit now that he has his new tinnie."
Hang on: wait a moment.
Eg: "Hang on mate, you are you spinning a yarn or fair dinkum?”
Hard Yakka: hard work. The expression is derived from the Aboriginal term, ‘yakka’, from the
Yagara/Jagara language once spoken in the Brisbane region. 26
Eg: “"
Have a burl, have a crack, have a go: to attempt to do something considered a little difficult.27
Eg: “”
Hen fruit: Eggs.
Eg: "Go wake up the chooks and grab some hen fruit for breaky wouldya”
How ya goin’?: How are you? (variation: ‘How’s it going?’, ‘How’s it gain'. Or even shorter: ‘Ow’s it
garn’).
Eg:"Ow's it garn mate?”
"Flat like a lizard drinking!”
Howya garn?: How are you going? It is not so much a real enquiry, but more of general greeting
similar to the British ‘How are you’, or the American ‘How are you doing’. It's a typical greeting
that usually follows an initial "G'Day".
Eg: "G'day Mate, Howya garn?"
Holy dooley!: an exclamation of surprise.
Eg: "Holy dooley! Cop a load of the size that barra!”
Hooroo: goodbye, see you later. Pronounced with or without the "h".
Eg: "Have a good one!" "Yeh no worries, hooroo!"28

I
Icy pole: a popsicle, also known as ice block. Old Australians and Queenslanders call it a 'by
jingo'. Another term, paddle pop, generally refers to a basic ice-cream on a wooden stick, due to a
popular brand with that name.
iffy: used to indicate that something is a bit suspicious.
Eg: "Oooo I dunno mate, looks a bit iffy to me".
Ivories:Teeth.
Eg: "I'll get a shot of you in your togs in Poppies Pools, show us your ivories!"
Idiot box: The TV.
Eg: “"
J
Jackaroo: Young male station hand or apprentice. Perhaps from the Spanish "caballero",
meaning horseman.
http://www.flickr.com/photos/johnwhite/6085419176/
Eg: “”
Jillaroo: a female jackeroo.

Eg: “”
Jack of something: to be sick and tired of something or doing something.
Eg: "I'm getting jack of this rain".
Jaffle: a toasted sandwich. Other states call them "toasite toasties" and often confuse jaffles with
waffles.
Eg: “”
Jiffy: a very short time.
Eg: ”No worries love, I'll have that steak sanga out to you in a jiffy”
Jelly: a desert made of geletin
Eg: “Righto you little ankle biters, who wants jelly and ice cream for sweets?”29
Jersey: a jumper, or what Americans call a "sweater", which seems odd, sweat being something
you do in the heat, not the cold.
Eg: “"
Jug: an electric kettle.
Eg: "Put the jug on, I'll make us a hot cuppa and we'll crack out the Tim Tams."
Jumbuck:
Eg: “”
Just down the road: not far away. Usual response when asking an Aussie for directions.
Eg: Tourist:"Do you know where the nearest petrol station is?"
Aussie bloke: "Yeh nah, there's a servo just down the road."

K
Kanga: Kangaroo
Eg: “”
Kid: a small child.
Eg: “”
I kid you not (alt. "I shit you not") = I am not joking.
Eg: "This humungous barra I caught was at least 3 feet long, I kid you not."
Kiddiwinks: Shildren.
Eg:"Alright kiddiwinks, get your jim jams on, it’s time to hit the swag.”
Knackers: Testicles
Eg: “…”
Knackered: Worn out (see also ‘Tuckered out’)
Eg: “…”
Knock off: 1. To finish work.
Eg: “…”
Knock off: 2. To steal.
Eg: “…”
Knock off: 3. An imitation.
Eg: “…”
Knock off: 4. to complete something.
Eg: “…”
Knock it off: a command to stop doing something.
Eg: “…”
L
Laughing gear: mouth.
Eg: "Wrap your laughing gear round this little beauty of a sanga”
"Wrap your laughing gear 'round a Paul's Billabong"30
Larrikin = Australian slang term of unknown origin popularized in the late 19th and early 20th
centuries. It signifies a young hoodlum or hooligan in the impoverished subculture of urban
Australia. The term was applied to the large numbers of sporadically employed teenagers and
young adults who banded together in gangs, or “pushes,” glorified the outlaw bushrangers,
engaged in gang fights with each other, assaulted citizens (especially in Sydney and Melbourne),
and generally defied and ridiculed the authorities. Larrikinism declined after 1900 particularly in the
face of intensified police surveillance; the stabilization of Australia’s urban society and the
development of organized sporting activities have also been credited with contributing to its
demise. The term larrikin is still used in Australia to characterize youthful rowdyism.31
Little boys: A tongue in cheek term for cocktail sausages. More correctly known as 'cocktail
frankfurts'. Americans know them as 'cocktail wieners'
Lob: to throw.
Eg: “He skulled his tinny as he lobbed a mystery bag onto the barbie without blinking an eye.”
Lob: to arrive.
Eg: “Dead set, the bloke lobbed up to the party with nothing more than a long neck of Fourex.”
lolly: confectionary. The equivalent of the American "candy" and the British "sweet".
Eg: "I remember when I was an ankle biter, two bob would get you a dog's eye with dead horse, a
bottle of Woodroof's lemonade, a lamington and a bag of mixed lollies."
M
Maccas: Mc Donalds.
Eg: “Carn, let’s do a Maccas run, I’m fangs; to mung out on a burger”
Mozzie: Mosquito.
Eg: “I have so many mozzie bites, I shoulda worn my trackie daks. Pass the Aerogaurd wouldya.”33
Mono: Wheelie, usually on a bicycle or motorbike.
Eg: "Pop a mono, see how long you can go for.
Mystery bag: a sausage.
Eg: Bloke 1: ”You wanna roo steak Bluey?”
Bloke 2: ”I'm not fussed, just chuck a coupla mystery bags on for me, she'll be right."34
Muddie: a large delicious mud crab found in the mangrove wetlands of QLD and NSW.
Eg: "Cop a load of these muddies we got from the dilly this arvo."

N
Neddie: a horse.
Eg: "This old neddie is no duffer, she's a good sort."
NT time: 'Northern Territory' time, or 'Not Today' time = any time in the next 24-48 hours.
Eg: "Yeh nah, we'll be there around mid day NT time."
O
Ocker: a real 'blokey', or uncouth man.
Eg: "Davo's knockin' em back like a real Aussie Ocker"
Oz: Australia. Other alternatives are Land of Oz, Down Under, Land Down Under. Also known as
“straya".
Eg:
Owsitgoin: how is it going. Variation: Howyagoin, short for “How are you going?”
Eg:
P
Pav – pavlova. An Australian dessert, with cream and fruit topping.
Eg: “”
http://www.flickr.com/search/?l=cc&mt=all&adv=1&w=all&q=pavlova&m=text
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pavlova_(food)
Paddle pop = originally a brand name, it has become used in some states as a generic term for an
ice-cream on a wooden stick.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Paddle_Pop
Eg: “”
Pearler = good, great.
Eg: "Now that's a pearler of an idea."
Pig's arse: exclamation of disbelief
Eg: “”
Pea-beu - hit 'em with the old Pea-beu (Australian ad, 1980) http://youtu.be/ROqxIdKff4k
Eg: “”
Pozzy = position.
Eg: "First in best dressed if you want a good pozzy in the tinnie”.
Port = In Queensland a school bag is called a "port" from the Latin, 'portare' meaning ‘to carry’, or
the French portmanteau, from porter ‘carry’ + manteau ‘mantle.’
Eg: "Aw go easy mate, my little yellow port is heaps grouser than your Adidas sports bag."35
Push-bike: Bicycle. Also “pushy” for short.
Eg: "You got a flat from riding over that patch of goatheads? No worries, I'll give you a dink on my
pushy.”36

Q
R
Racing Plates: Instead of the usual horse shoes a horse usually wears, on race-day they are fitted
with lightweight racing plates.
Eg: "Get those racing plates on, this Roughie is gonna make the jockey cop a minty!”
Rack Off: Go away.
Eg: “”
Rock up / Rocks in = to turn up.
Eg: "Bluey rocked up last night with couple of muddys for the pot. Reckons he caught 'em in a dilly
in the local creek."
Rafferty's rules: no rules, disorder.37
Eg: “”
Reckon: Think.
Eg:"Whaddayou reckon makes Australia great?”38
Ridgy-didge: Real, genuine, true.39
Eg: “”
Ring: to call someone on the phone.
Eg: "Ring Stevo and tell him we ran over some goats heads and need a lift home. If he brings the
ute we can chuck our treadles in the back.40
Eg: "Ring Stevo and see if he's bringing his esky to the barbie"
Ripper: Great. Shortened from "Rip Snorter", "Ripper" is an expression used when excited.
Eg, "You little Ripper!"
Roo: Kangaroo.
Eg: “”
Rug Rat: baby.
Eg: "You grab the rug rat a doonah and I'll get the esky, we're goin' to the beach!"

S
Sandshoes: plimsoll (British) or sneaker (American). A shoe with a canvas upper and rubber sole.
The classic Aussie sandshoe is the Dunlop Volley.
Eg: "Carn, chuck your sandshoes on, we're gonna hoof it to the beach this arvo."
Sav = saveloy, a frankfurter, or seasoned sausage, sometimes battered when bought with fish &
chips.41
Eg: “”
Snag: sausage,
Eg: “Dead set, that snag fell off the back of the barbie and now bluey's got it.”
Speedos: mens swimming costume, the more correct term for 'budgie smugglers’.
Eg: “”
Stinker, Stinking Hot: Bloody hot, humid.
Eg: "It's gonna be a stinker of a day in SA this arvo!"
Sandgroper: A Western Australian. Otherwise known as a "Waussie". 42
Eg: “”
She'll be right: No problem, don't worry, mate.
Eg: “”
Shit happens: Aussie equivalent of "C'est la vie", or "Such is Life".
Eg: "Sorry mate, one of your snags fell off the back so I gave it to Bluey." "No worries mate, shit
happens."
Shoot through: Leave.
Eg: “”
Slap-up: makeshift, prepared on the spot.
Eg: "Wanna go down the pub for a counter meal?" bangers & mash instead.”
"I thought we'd have a slap-up meal of
Shanks Pony: To walk somewhere on foot.
Eg: Bloke 1: “You wanna jum in the back of the ute and we’ll lob over to Robbo’s?”
Bloke 2: “Yeh nah, she’s apple mate, I reckon I’ll take Shanks Pony instead eh”.
Shark biscuit: an inexperienced surfer.
Eg: “”
Sheltershed: a simple detached building to protect school children from the sun or rain. Also
known as a lunch shed, weather shed or undercover area. 43
Eg: “”
Skunted: A mocking exclamation at someone else mistake.

26Eg: “”
Soft drink, fizzy drink = any non-alcoholic carbonated drink. The equivalent of the American
"soda" or the British "pop".
Eg: “”
Spag bol (variant: spag bog) = spaghetti bolognese.
Eg: "Last night the missses cooked up beauty of a feed - spag bog followed by a dinki-di pav."44
Spewin' = very angry.
Eg: I got done by the breatho in the ute, the cops reckon I was over, I was spewin’
Stunned mullet: a shocked person.45
Eg: "When I told Shazza that Davo was gonna take a squizz at her clapped out old thunderbox,
she looked like a stunned mullet."
Strides: Jeans, long trousers.
Eg: Put your good strides on, where not going to Sizzlers!
Strewth = an exclamation.
Eg: "Strewth mate, you oughta be a bit more careful. You could go arse up on those rocks and land
in the drink."
Spinout = weird, freaky. Can be a noun or verb.
Eg: "Wow, what a spinout" or "hey relax, don't spinout about it”.
Straya: a term for Australla.
Eg: “”
Stickybeak = a nosy person. Can also be used as a verb,
Eg: "Carn, give us a stickybeak at your lunch, I bet it's vegemite sangas again eh."46
Strine = Australian language, short for "Australian". The term was coined in 1964 and
subsequently used to describe a broad accent of Australian English. The term is a syncope,
derived from a shortened phonetic rendition of the pronunciation of the word "Australian" in an
exaggerated Broad Australian accent, drawing upon the tendency of this accent to run words
together in a form of liaison.47
Eg: "Keep reading my posts and you'll soon be speaking strine like a true blue Aussie."48
Sticks, the: a remote area
Eg: ”You live in Borroloola? Isn't that way out in the sticks?"
Stoked: Pleased.
Eg: "Bruce was stoked that he’d snagged a couple of muddies in his crab pot.”

27Strine: Australian slang, from "Aus-strine", the way Aussies say Australian.49
Eg: “”
Sunnies: sun glasses.
Eg: "Ever noticed how bald guys wear their sunnies like a hat?”
Swag: bed.
Eg: “”
Swimmers: Swimming costume.
Eg: "Sharon rocked up wearing her swimmers and a sarong, choice!”

T
Taswegian: A Tasmanian. Another name for a Tasmanian is "Apple Eater".
Eg: “”
Tanktop: Singlet.
Eg: "I see that sheila you fancy has got her tanktop on today.”
Thongs: simple rubber footwear. In America thhongs are known as "flip flops", presumably from
the sound they make when you walk.
Eg: "Looks like one of the little sprogs have forgotten their thongs."50
Tip Top: Good. Also the name of a popular pre-sliced loaf of bread.
Eg: “Good on ya Mum, Tip Top’s the one, God one Mum.”
Tinnie: small aluminium boat.
Eg: "If you're going out for horsies in the tinnie, watch you don't tangle your stick bait around the
donk."
Tinnie: Can of beer.
Eg: “”
Tim Tam Slam: An Australian delicacy: Make a hot cup of coffee, bite off both ends of a Tim Tam
and suck up the coffee through the Tim Tam, then eat the Tim Tam.51
Eg: “”
Togs: Swimming costume (QLD / NT) (See also ‘Bathers’, ’Cosi’, ‘’Swimmers’)
Eg: "Cop a load of that bloke's togs! Looks like his underdaks"
Townie: a city person visiting the bush or country town.
Eg: "Look at that bloke pouring his stubbie into a glass. He's gotta be a townie"
Thongs: flip flops.
Eg: "She's apples, I've got me stubbie cooler, sunnies and thongs, I'm set."
Trunks = swimming costume (NSW / Vic)
Eg: "Get your trunks out of the boot, were going to Bondi".
Thunderbox: out doors toilet.
Eg: "It's out the back, it's a thunderbox. Watch out for the spiders."
Trunkin’: Say it when you see a guy surfing in really cold water without a wetsuit.
Eg: “Man, he is trunkin’ it today!"
Too right: absolutely.
Eg: "You comin' down the pub to squeeze a few of tinnies?"
"Too right mate!"

29Thongs: flip flops.
heads!"52
Eg: "She's apples mate, I'm set, I brought me thongs - now watch me walk on this bed of goat
True Blue: Dinki di, dead set, fair dinkum, true dinks, no joke, honest, seriously, the truth.
Eg: “”
Tucker: food.
Eg: "And he sang as he shoved that jumbuck in his tucker-bag"
Tuckshop: school canteen.
Eg: "Anyone want anything from the Tuckshop? I'm getting a banana paddle-pop, 50 cents worth of
cobbers.”
Three-cornered Jack (South Australia): a thorn.53
It was also an energizer and vitalizer in the indigenous system of medicine and used as an
aphrodisiac.54
Eg: “”
Treadly: a bicycle.
like that one."
55
Eg: “Cop a load of that bloke's deadly treadly, I reckon I could pop a pearler of a mono with a fixy
U
Ute: Short for 'Utility truck' A vehicle with the cabin of a car and the rear of a small truck, designed
by Ford in Geelong, Victoria,1934.
Eg: “”
Us: Sometimes used in place of “me”. Eg: “Can you grab em for us?”
Eg: “”
Undies: Underwear, underpants.
Eg: “”
U-y: a U-Turn.
Eg: “Chuck a U-y and we’ll go back and pick up that sheila’s treddly.”
V
Happy Little Vegemite: a joyful child.
Eg: "Give him a boogie board and point him at the sea and he's happy little Vegemite.”56
Vegemite:
Vegemite Challenge:
W
Watchupto: What are you doing, what are you plans?
Eg: “Whatchupto this arvo?”
Wonky: Not correct, broken. (See also ‘dodgy’)
Eg: “”
Woopwoop: in the middle of nowhere.
Eg: “We’re going scrub bashing out woopwoop, wanna come?”
X
Y
Yabby:
Eg:
Yabby Pump
Eg:
Yobbo:
Eg:
Yonks: A long time.
Eg: "How old is the Lost City? Mate, it's been here for yonks!"
Youse = plural of 'you'.
Eg: "I love youse all!"
Z
Rhyming Slang
Barry Crocker: a shocker
Cheese & kisses: Misses, the wife
Dead Horse: tomato sauce
Dog's eye: meat pie
Kerry Packered: knackered, worn out
Pat Malone: on your own
Reg Grundys: undies, underpants
Tin lids: kids
Expressions
A kangaroo loose in the top paddock: mentally not quite there.
Eg: “”
A few snags short of a barbie
Eg: “”
A stubbie short of a six pack
Eg: “”
Happy as a pig in mud: very happy. More often than not, the word "mud" is exchanged with a
four letter word that begins with 's' and ends with a 't'.
Eg:"He's as happy as a pig in shit now that he has his new tinnie.”
Arsehole to breakfast time: from start to finish
Eg: "He had vegemite all over, from arsehole to breakfasttime” 58
As sharp as a bowling ball: not very intelligent.
Eg: “”
As fit as a Mallee bull: Really muscly, well built
Eg: “”
As lonely as a country dunny: very lonely.
Eg: "Go on mate, go chat up that shiela in the sarong, she looks as lonely as a country dunny”.59
As useful as a handbrake on a Holden: Useless
Eg: “”
As useless as tits on a bull: Useless
Eg: “Don’t bring that drongo again, he’s a s useless as tits on a bull.”
Bring a plate: Bring some food to contribute to a shared meal. It doesn’t mean that the host is
short of crockery.
Eg: “”We’re having a barbie tomorrow at Davo’s shack, Davo’s supplying the snags, just bring a
plate and some coldies”.
Carrying on like a pork chop:
Eg: “”
Chuck a Uey: to make a U-turn.
Eg: "Mate, you've gone too far. Chuck a Uey and go back a few clicks."
Chuck a leftie: to turn left.
Eg: “You’ll have to chuck a leftie after the 2nd stobie pole on your left and park behind that ute."
Chuck a sickie: stay home sick.
Chuck a wobbly / spazz / mental: to have a fit of temper, or spit the dummy.
Eg: "Keep ya shirt on, don't chuck a wobbly”
Chuck chunder: to vomit
Eg: "Ooohh I feel sooo crook, I think I'm gonna chuck chunder. Must have been that bloody Forex.”
Like a shag on a rock:
Eg: “”
Fair suck of the sav: a 'fair go'. Used as an exclamation in an unfair situation as a call for
fairness. An alternative saying is: 'fair suck of the sauce bottle'.
Flat out like a lizard drinking: Very busy.
Eg: “”
From go to whoa: literally from start to finish.
Eg: "It was a full on ride mate, from go to whoa."
Give it heaps = give it everything you've got, to not hold back.
Eg: "She's almost out, have another crack at it and give it heaps this time."
Variant: "Give 'em heaps" = to give some one a lot of criticism,
Eg: "I gave him heaps for trying to drive through there, he should've known better."
Go easy: ease off, don't be so hard.
Eg: "Go easy mate, I was just trying knock a few blowies off ya back.”60
Going off like a frog in a sock:
Eg: “”
Go off: Go wild.
Eg: Sheila 1: ”Are you coming to see Diana Anaid play at the Nimbin Hotel tonight?
Sheila 2: “Sure am, she goes off!”61
Good onya = Good for you. Said when giving approval though can be used ironically sometimes.
Eg: “You swam from one end of the pool to the other without floaties! Good onya!"
Good tucker (pronounced "good tucka") = an expression of appreciation of food.
Eg: After polishing off his counter meal at the local pub, Bruce lean back, belched, and exclaimed
to the barman: "Bloody good tucker mate."
Guster, to 'come a guster' = to fall heavily to the ground, or to fail. 62
Eg: Bloke 1: ”Dya see that jocky who come a guster when he fell off his horse?”
Bloke 2: ”Yeh, I reckon that bolter was nobbled before the race, he was a dead bird!”
Hoof it: to walk somewhere.
Eg: “You want a lift to the beach mate?"
”Yeh nah, I reckon I'll hoof it eh."

Home and hosed: Completed successfully and easily. The implication is that the horse has run his
race and is "home and hosed" before the other runners come in. Also indicates that the result was
a foregone conclusion.
Eg: ””
In a tic: in a moment.
Eg: "No wukkas, I'll have that treddly in the boot of your ute in a tic.”
in the bag: A forgone conclusion that something has been achieved.
Eg: Bloke 1: "I dunno if you'll be able to land this big fella."
Bloke 2: "No worries mate, it's in the bag.”
Leg it: to leave.
closes.”
Eg: “Mate, I reckon I’m gonna have to leg it if I’m gonna pick up a pie floater before the Deli
Not wrong: I agree emphatically.
Eg: "I reckon I could settle down here in a shack on the beach."
"Not wrong!"63
No worries: no problem.
Eg: “Hey thanks so much for going to get the kidlets”
“No worries mate, they’d run over some goatheads so I chucked their treadlies in the back of the
ute and dropped them off at the servo.”
No wukkas: no problem. An abbreviation of the spoonerism "No wucking forries".
No dramas: No problem, no worries.
Eg: "So you managed to find the beach no worries?"
"Yeh nah, no dramas mate."
Piss fart around = muck around.
Eg: “Stop ya bloody piss farting around and get your swag in the back of the ute.”
Polish off = to finish something.
Eg: "I'm just gonna polish off the last of the Tim Tams then I'll have to hit the swag."64
She'll be apples: It'll be OK.
Eg: No tucker? She'll be apples mate, I'll just won chook in the pub raffle.
She’ll be right, mate: It will be OK. Often used as a response, much like ‘No worries’.
Eg: Bloke 1: “D’ya wanna glass with that stubbie?”
Bloke 2: ”Yeh nah, she’ll be right mate.”
She’s safe as houses:
Eg: “”
See you round like a rissole:
Eg: “”
Spin a yarn: tell a story
Eg: "The old bloke with the wild beard and red flanny used to spin a great yarn about his life as a
tin lid."
Stone the crows: An exclamation of surprise.
Eg: “”
Strike a light: An exclamation
Eg: “”
Stand out like dog’s balls: very obvious
Eg: “”
You little beauty:
Eg: “”
You little ripper:
Eg: “”
